---
title: Reflections
description: Personal reflections after completing the project.
---

## Challenges faced and how I overcame it

I think the first and largest challenge which I faced was that I didn't know how to start working on
this project. My plan was to work on the backend first, but how foreign Flask was to me made me
unable to write proper code. I did not know how to do a lot of things in Flask, such as structuring
a project well, and use of extensions.

Even though I have learnt some things in class, they were not particularly helpful when it comes to
an even bigger and more complex projects. For example, I need to split up the routes into multiple
files, and also many more kinds of Flask extensions were needed to accomplish specific tasks.

In order to overcome this challenge, I have done a lot of referencing to other projects. Redash was
one of the projects which I made reference to the most, as it is one of the largest open source
Flask applications with possibly a good structure. I still ended up refactoring a lot of code to
make it suitable for what I was doing.

## Things I have learnt

The biggest takeaway from this project is, of course, the use of Flask and its extensions in depth.
I have now learnt about how I can build a production ready Flask application, with good practices
and project structure. This also includes how to deploy it.

I am also now appreciating Flask a lot more than I did. There is an amazing ecosystem in Flask,
which is its full range of extensions. You can almost find an extension for anything and constantly
bring up levels of abstractions. However, this also has its problems as the code may not be
optimised for a particular use case, and too much black boxing might cause problems with learning.

I used to think that Python is nothing good for writing scalable web applications, but now I even
agree with that more. I feel that the features of a compiled language much better suits a scalable
and easily predictable web application. Flask was a great experience nevertheless.

## Aspects of projects I'm most proud of

I think that the encryption was one of the aspects I'm most proud of. I wrote much more extensively
about how the encryption is implemented and how it works in another article. After reading that, you
would understand why I'm calling this the state-of-the-art. Implementing this definitely makes me
feel proud of it.

I think that originally the focus of this project was not so much on security. However, security
is the core of everything for a project like this one, and if it is not implemented well a lot of
things could go wrong. Hence, I did not have time to work on the other features which I originally
planned. I guess it is also due to the time spent overcoming the challenge above.

Hopefully I can work on this sometime later to complete the missing features.
